---
layout: page
title: Introduction to Quantum Mechanics
collection: physics
date: 2025-10-19
---

The Theoretical Minimum refers to a number of courses on a variety of topics in Physics by Prof. Susskind at Stanford that took place during several years and whose recordings you can find at https://theoreticalminimum.com. They try to teach all that is necessary to understand modern physics in a way much deeper that popular science books. In my opinion, they are the perfect courses for science and technology people, non-physicists, for example engineers, who want to go beyond the foundations they learnt during their college years or for physics students in their first or sencond year of studies who want to get a glimpse about advanced physics. Individuals in that situation, such as me, see you barely can learn something interesting without equations, as a way to deeply and fully express ideas in science. Professor Susskind did a great job during this continuing classes and some of his students decided to write a book with the content of those classes. Some of them already had put together notes and published them. Hence, moving to that next step which is writing a book, seems somehow natural. I first read Volume I, II and III of the Theoretical Minimum a few years ago and was I looking forward to reading Volume IV, devoted to General Relativity.  

General Relativity is an arduous topic, with long equations (even more that quantum mechanics) and requiring knowledge of differential geometry. Some excellent books of different level exist, but I was not able to find something more foundational, as at this time I am more interested in grasping the core concepts, but without losing the math and physics rigourosity. In my BS. in Phisyics I have already studied Quantum Mechanics and Hilbert spaces, as well as the fundamentals of Classical Field Theory and Special Relativity, after that, I am puzzled (as many, I can imagine), about how far gravity seems to be from other fields, in terms of its nature and our understanding (I might be wrong, I am not an expect in the field). It sounds incredible how the electromagnetic field is so well explained and understood, even though it was "discovered" much after gravity.

When I received a copy of General Relativity (GR) Theoretical Minimum Volume IV, I dedicated a lot of hours of the last 2025 summer to its reading. I decided to create my own notes, some sort of summary, as a way to improve my understanding and have something written I can check quickly in the future any time I may need to refresh the ideas and concepts of GR. 
